now Samson went down to Timna and saw a
woman in Timna of the daughters of the
Philistines so he went up and told his
father and mother I have seen a woman in
Timna of the daughters of the
Philistines
now therefore get her for me as a wife
is there no woman among the daughters of
your brethren or among all my people
that you must go and get a wife from the
uncircumcised Philistines get her for me
for she pleases me well
but his father and mother did not know
that it was of the Lord that he was
seeking an occasion to move against the
Philistines for at that time the
Philistines had dominion over Israel
so Samson went down to Timna with his
father and mother and came to the
vineyards of Timna now to his surprise a
young lion came roaring against him and
the Spirit of the Lord came mightily
upon him and he tore the line apart as
one would have torn apart a younger
though he had nothing in his hand but he
did not tell his father or his mother
what he had done then he went down and
talked with the woman and she pleased
Sampson well after some time when he
returned to get her he turned aside to
see the carcass of alive and behold a
swarm of bees and honey were in the
carcass of the lion he took some of it
in his hands and went along eating
when he came to his father and mother he
gave some to them and they also ate but
he did not tell them that he had taken
the honey out of the carcass of the lion
so his father went down to the woman and
Samson gave a feast there for young men
used to do so and it happened when they
saw him that they brought thirty
companions to be with him
then Samson said to them let me pose a
riddle to you if you can correctly solve
and explain it to me within the seven
days of the feast then I will give you
30 linen garments and 30 changes of
clothing but if you cannot explain it to
me then you shall give me 30 linen
garments and 30 changes of clothing pose
your riddle that we may hear it out of
the eater came something to eat and out
of the strong came something sweet now
for three days they could not explain
the riddle but it came to pass on the
seventh day that they said to Samson's
wife entice your husband that he may
explain the riddle to us or else we will
burn you and your father's house with
fire have you invited us in order to
take what is ours
is that not so
[Music]
then Samson's wife wept on it
you only hate me you do not love me
you have posed a riddle to the sons of
my people but you have not explained it
to me look I have not explained it to my
father or my mother
so should I explain it to you now she
had wept on him the seven days while
their feast lasted and it happened on
the seventh day that he told her because
she pressed him so much then she
explained the riddle to the sons of her
people so the men of the city said to
him on the seventh day before the Sun
went down what is sweeter than honey and
what is stronger than a lion and he said
to them if you had not plowed with my
heifer you would have not solved my
riddle then the Spirit of the Lord came
upon him mightily and he went down to
Ashkelon and killed and made the changes
of clay to those who had explained the
riddle
so his anger was aroused and he went
back up to his father's house and
Samson's wife was given to his companion
who had been his best man